Well,
welcome to our library studio and our
continuing presentation of The Last Word
Picture.
And in so doing,
we are going to now begin our review,
hopefully for the last time,
although who knows,
as much as we're learning from it,
of the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr Series.
I used to say that exuberantly until I
realized the role that I've had in
composing it with Yahowah.
And so I'm a little more cautious in
saying that,
although that is still my conclusion,
that it is the most important piece of
literature that we will find among the
Towrah prophets and Psalms.
It was comprised, as we know,
in a collaboration between Yahowah and a
man named Ethan ha 'Ezrachy.
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy defines a character that has
been part of God's story for a very
long time.
As of this moment,
he is fifty-four hundred years old in
terms of the initiation of his soul.
He was originally Chanowk, Enoch,
and he has made many visits here over
time.
Well, one of his most important,
and maybe it is his most important,
was here in collaboration with the Yahowah to
resolve the really identity crisis that
was plaguing Dowd.
Dowd became far too interested in the
lust of life as opposed to the love
of his life, who was Yahowah.
He became belligerent against God.
In fact,
I'm going to share something with you in
this psalm that I never thought I would
ever come to this position because I have
such a low regard for Adam and such
a high regard for Dowd.
But as we consider how
lethargic Dowd became when he was lounging
around all day while his subjects were off
fighting a war and how he became a
voyeur and an alcoholic.
And then when given the chance to come
clean and resolve these problems,
doubled down and passed blame to God,
took no responsibility for it.
He reminds me
a lot in this particular mode of Adam
long ago.
And so this was a real crisis of
identity.
It had to be resolved.
Had it not been resolved,
essentially the human experiment would
have come to a crashing halt.
There'd have been no opportunity for the
fulfillment of Pesach, Matsah and Bikuwrym.
And with the
Mowedym, unfulfilled,
there'd be no chance of establishing the
covenant or of anyone living past this
life, including Dowd.
And so it becomes...
One of the most essential interventions of
all time.
This is particularly true because Dowd and
Yahowah were no longer on a talkative basis.
They had stepped apart from one another.
Yahowah only communicated to Dowd through an
intermediary, that being Nathan.
And even here,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr is being
delivered by Ethan  ha 'Ezrachy,
not spoken directly to Dowd.
And so to resolve that problem,
God had an ingenious plan.
That plan involved him inserting a man and
woman, a husband and wife,
who would serve as surrogate parents,
father and mother,
for the very son of God,
for the most important man who ever lived,
the king of Israel,
to restore his relationship with Yahowah so
that he could recover from his tragic
death.
Mistake in judgment,
come to embrace his destiny and fulfill in
a second of three lives, Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
So this was the challenge.
And the document that caused it to happen
was the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
It is being delivered to Dowd.
sometime after his, uh,
fifty-sixth birthday,
and I would say probably, um,
right around his sixtieth year.
You know,
things went south for Dowd even after this
Bathsheba incident.
He suffered all manner of calamities,
and I don't think they were resolved
quickly.
So I would suspect that Dowd was over
sixty by the time that he was visited
by his surrogate parents and this manner
of rebellion against his father, Yahowah.
was resolved.
What we're going to hear in this Mizmowr
is, initially, Ethan ha 'Ezrachy ,
speaking about God's character,
his nature.
He's going to introduce what he deems to
be Yahowah's most important
characteristics, loyalty, devotion,
and love.
along with trustworthiness, integrity,
and reliability.
Probably four times over in his
presentation of Yahowah,
and he's doing so because his message to
Dowd has no merit apart from Yahowah's
inspiration of it.
It all hinges on who Yahowah is.
Ethan is the delivery boy.
He is, well, the delivery man.
He's serving his father at this point.
But he is conveying this message from
Yahowah to his son.
And the only way that it has credibility
is to acknowledge Yahowah's credibility and
devotion to his son,
his steadfastness in this regard.
In the early statements,
we're going to find Ethan talk about
himself.
and who he represents so that Dowd
understands that the man speaking to him
isn't one of his subjects.
He is very close to Dowd's equal.
He has skin in the game.
He is one who will suffer as Dowd
has suffered.
He will fulfill the Mow'ed Miqra'ey.
He will write as Dowd has written.
He will lead as Dowd has led.
He will be inspired as Dowd was inspired.
He is as close to Dowd as anyone
will or has ever been.
And so he talks about himself and he
does so to garner Dowd's attention and
trust.
For Dowd to know he is not in
this
And the earlier program in the Ocean
Studio today,
I hinted at something that even my wife
came in just a few minutes ago and
said,
what in the world were you talking about
at the end of that show?
Where I said that it's my conclusion based
upon what I'm hearing in the Twelfth
Mizmowr,
that it is highly likely
that when Yahowah allowed Dowd to fulfill
his destiny and to serve as the Pesach
Ayil and then take our guilt into Sheowl
on Matsah, that he did not go alone.
Once Yahowah brought Leah and I in,
and this is Leah and I,
to support Dowd at this time in this
way.
We bonded with him as no one else
in his life.
We essentially became his mother and
father.
And there is no way in the world
that we would have allowed him to go
fulfill Pesach,
Matsah and Bikuwrym in his second of three
lives alone.
And so there is the high likelihood that
we were there.
And I did, in the break,
in addition to continuing to translate and
work upon the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
I'm a little over just quite,
not quite two-thirds finished with it.
We're going to start here with the
dedication in this program.
So at least I'm ahead of where we
are on this program.
I did turn to the Twenty-Second Mizmowr.
And I was right.
I think we were there,
but most certainly I was there to support
Dowd.
And so with that in mind,
I'd like to introduce this marvelous song
again.
I've always considered it to be Dowd's
song.
It was composed for him,
but it's also composed for us.
It is a song that completely destroys
Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.
And only someone who has spent the time
that I have repudiating those religions,
having written thirteen books,
each averaging about seven hundred and
fifty pages,
citing a comparison between God's
testimony and the false prophecy of
Judaism, Islam, and Christianity.
would be able to fully appreciate just how
devastating this Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr is
to those religions.
They don't survive it.
This eviscerates them.
And it's why I quoted it in all
of them,
because it is essential to negating them.
But it also establishes exactly who Dowd
is.
He is the Son of God.
He is the anointed Messiah.
He is the Passover lamb and therefore our
savior.
He is the chosen one.
He is the one through whom the covenant
was literally established.
It's extraordinary what it says of him.
He was the one through whom God chose
to work, his coworker.
It leaves no room for anyone else in
that regard.
So now that we know the identity of
the man conveying Dowd's song and
collaborating in the writing of it on
behalf of his father,
and his collaboration, by the way,
takes us through about the first fifteen
or so statements,
maybe closer to twenty statements.
When there is one and the first twenty,
there is one statement that's directly
from Yahowah.
It just come out with a kaboom.
This is who Dowd is.
And then it says some remarkable things
that I had no knowledge of prior.
That brings us to today about the things
that Yahowah will do through Ethan
ha 'Ezrachy.
And then after he explains that,
God picks up the narrative.
And for in the range of twenty statements
in a row, everyone is in Yahowah's voice.
And so that is the pace of this.
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy does the introduction.
He tells us about Yahowah.
He tells us about himself.
Yahowah makes a profoundly important
declaration about Dowd.
And then we return to Ethan describing
what he knows of Yahowah and what he
perceives of Dowd and what he will do
in his life in support of him.
And then we turn to full blast Yahowah.
It becomes...
amazingly brilliant i thought that the
parts that i had written were reasonably
astute but god is infinitely more
articulate he is just let me tell you
the way it is so it's time now
that we venture back into the ultimate
Mizmowr the greatest song ever sung i see
it not only as the cornerstone of the
covenant and it indeed is and of Yahowah's
home on earth but it's also the keystone
of
God's message and my mission.
I think it was inspired and written
sometime at least eight years before the
sixtieth Yowbel year in three thousand
years,
but it could have been written as early
as fourteen years.
prior to that time,
and therefore on or around the sixtieth
birthday of Dowd when he was sixty years
old.
He would end his first of three lives
at seventy.
So at sixty,
he would have ten years to process all
of this.
It could not have been written any earlier
in his life than that.
It could have been written a little later.
And so it was written maybe four to
fourteen years prior to nine sixty eight
BCE.
The eighty ninth psalm.
I think is the epitome of divine prose.
When Yahowah takes over the microphone,
if you will take center stage,
I do my best to introduce him.
Once he takes over, it is kaboom.
It is just magic.
It's extraordinary.
Literally the most important piece of
literature ever written.
Now this is a maskal according to Ethan
ha 'Ezrachy.
which is a portrayal of insights to
contemplate and comprehend,
and it delivers.
It was composed, as I have shared,
by a man who introduces himself as Ethan,
the reoccurring one who is often deployed.
He is ha 'Ezrachy,
the tree of logical expressions.
It is a maskyl,
a poetic portrayal of insights to
comprehend and contemplate.
Maskyl is prudent lyrics written to convey
important ideas worthy of thoughtful
consideration.
This word is a compound of ma,
which is to ponder important questions
regarding sakal, being circumspect,
being sensible,
gaining insights and prospering from them,
paying attention to understand while
learning to comprehend.
This is a exercise between the ears.
This is a thinking person's poem.
And it was scribed by, and it's of,
concerning, according to,
and on behalf of, Ethan,
the perpetually reoccurring, the resolute,
the continually deployed,
the eternally engaged,
and the long established and perennially
unrelenting productive one.
Ethan.
Steadfast and everlasting, steady,
resolute, profuse, continuous, permanent,
perpetual, consistent, enduring,
and routinely used.
ha 'Ezrachy,
the one springing up and coming forth as
a tree.
If you don't know that metaphor,
he is the tree of knowledge.
and he directs our attention to the tree
of lives who is Dowd.
So the one springing up and coming forth
as a tree,
prepared to shine on time with logical
expressions on the sequence of events.
ha 'Ezrachy
the one arising out of the soil,
spontaneously growing and reborn to be
rational while supplying chronological and
sequential
Temporal and timely,
historical expressions.
It is from az at that time,
simultaneous with these events.
Azar mightily prepared and girded in
strength, equipped as a strong arm,
properly adorned and trained.
zarach, to rise up and shine,
to come forth and appear bright and akin
to ezrowa.
the strong arm and powerful, Zarowa.
Mizmowr Psalm, that is the dedication.
Unlike any other,
nothing even remotely comparable to it.
It is as we had thought.
It is a ,
it's a comprehensive portrayal of
rationally derived insights.
This is delivered for Dowd, for Israel,
and for the world to know, to comprehend,
and to share.
As for Mr. Ethan ha 'Ezrachy, well,
he is as Yahowah has named him.
And here,
as Ethan opens by sharing his life's
journey and God's presence,
he wants us to know that Yahowah is
God's name, that he is loving.
and that Yahowah has remained consistent
throughout time.
That will be central to his message.
We are being renewed and reassured here
that as God was in the garden,
as he was with Noach,
and as he was with Abraham,
he is now with Dowd and will forever
be.
It is Yahowah's Chesed,
steadfast devotion to those he favors,
that impressed our time traveler more than
anything else about God.
When I say time traveler, well,
he was inserted in and out of God's
timeline to help keep his people and plan
apace.
He only moves one way in time,
never back.
Anyway,
he thinks that the Chesed is essential to
knowing God.
He wants us to know that he will
be singing about Yahowah forevermore as
Yada,
such that everyone is aware that our God
is emuwnah , trustworthy and reliable.
And this means that he isn't capricious.
thereby negating all of the so-called
Abrahamic religions,
which are predicated on change.
We have Perry just arrived for a visit
and he is being assaulted by Asher,
who is treating him like he is somebody
that she has known for a century,
her best friend ever.
So I don't want my dog indicted for
rape,
but she's pushing the boundaries at this
point.
So I have chosen to continually share,
it says, my life's journey in a song.
shyr,
remember when a couple of programs ago and
we were reading how shyr was associated
with Ethan ha Ezrachy?
I said, remember that word,
it's going to come up.
in the first statement, opening statement,
if you will, in the Maskyl,
in this Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
I have chosen to continually share my
life's journey in a song.
It is my ongoing and continuous desire to
convey the nature of my travels.
while always singing from shore,
to travel on the journey while expressing
the itinerary.
This is called Imperfect Cohortative,
first person singular.
So it says that this is something that
Ethan has chosen to do.
It's under the auspices of free will.
and in the imperfect says that it's
something he is doing continually,
consistently.
This isn't his first time to share his
life journey or to sing a song about
the loyal love, steadfast devotion,
enduring favoritism and genuine mercy.
The Chesed, the kindness, the zeal,
the mutual obligation to provide benefits
and the affection of Yahowah.
of God's one and only name.
It's transliterated here based upon his
higher existence and his Towrah
instructions.
Ethan ha Ezrachy knew it.
And so should you.
From antiquity into futurity,
forever throughout time,
beginning long ago and into perpetuity,
infinitely and eternally on behalf of
generation after generation,
the dwelling places and the family lineage
throughout time.
Opening statement continues with I, Yada,
will consistently make known.
I will always remain aware of,
acknowledge, respect and reveal,
demonstrating that I am Yana,
familiar with, concerned about,
devoted to understanding and conveying
what I have learned.
Hifl, imperfect, first person, singular,
meaning also ongoing and encouraging you
to appreciate therefore,
Yahowah is your trustworthiness and
dependability.
emuwnah
It is the first of four times that
he will report on God's emuwnah.
His honesty and reliability.
Yahowah's firm and steadfast commitment to
the truth.
emuwnah is the feminine of emuwn,
unwavering, dependability,
pursuant to a trustworthy and reliable
nature.
It is from Aman to support, confirm,
uphold, nourish, foster, establish,
and make firm that which is verifiable and
sure as the steady right-handed worker who
is providing certain verification with my
mouth.
ba peh any
in my speech and in my words.
I'm going to share some insights with
that, with all of this in a moment,
but it is so much to process.
I'd like to read it through one more
time and let's get in a words-eye view
of the opening statement.
It begins,
I have chosen to continually share my
life's journey in the song.
Speaking about the loyal love,
the steadfast devotion,
the enduring favoritism, the kindness,
the sense of mutual obligation to provide
benefits, and the affection of Yahowah.
Doing so from antiquity into futurity,
forever, throughout all time,
beginning long ago and into perpetuity.
On behalf of
Generation after generation,
the dwelling places and family lineage
throughout all time, door wa door.
And so I, Yada,
will consistently make known,
I will always remain aware of,
acknowledge, respect, and reveal,
demonstrating that as Yada,
I am familiar with, concerned about,
and devoted to,
understanding and conveying
your trustworthiness and dependability.
Emuwnah, your honesty and reliability,
your firm and steadfast commitment to the
truth.
With my mouth and my speech and with
my words.
That was Mizmowr Psalm, eighty-nine-one.
Pretty extraordinary introduction and
opening statement.
So the Song of Songs,
is a love song.
It expresses Yahowah's enduring devotion to
his people, to his beloved son,
and conveys what Ethan ha 'Ezrachy has come
to know of the God that he has
served at this point for millennia.
Now, unfortunately,
it was unrequited love because Yisrael
didn't reciprocate
Even the man who was the most doed
beloved had at this point turned a cold
shoulder to God.
Fortunately,
Yahowah's patience would outlast his sons
and his people's recalcitrance.
One has been resolved, the other will be.
But more than Chesed, loving and merciful,
according to Yada,
the one who knew more about God at
this point than any other,
for having spent more time with Yahowah
than any other,
his view is that God is also resolutely
Emuwnah, honest, unwavering, steadfast.
And so in his opening line,
The greatest, must call,
poetic portrayal of insights to comprehend
and contemplate,
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy affirms the three
things that are the most important for us
to know about God.
He is eternally loving and devoted,
trustworthy and dependable.
It wasn't all that long ago,
but sometimes we forget when introducing
Ethan  ha 'Ezrachy, God said,
and so his name, proper designation,
reputation, and renown,
his calling and his conspicuous position
will exist throughout time among all of
the Gowym,
the non-Yisraelites who will turn around
and who are being brought around.
So,
He conveyed, narrating, narrating,
thirty instructive Mashal,
thirty word pictures as memorable parables
and wise proverbs to inspire astute
leadership.
And his shyr,
his songs about his journey through life
will be five, each bullish for the tribe,
learned and instructive,
empowering a thousand fold.
That was from Melekym, First Kings,
four thirty two.
As I had suspected, this is that sure.
Now,
throughout my prolonged journey through
life,
I have been devoted to sharing what I've
come to know and experience of Yahowah's
Chesed, his love, his devotion,
his favoritism.
My
Father,
the father of the covenant is kind.
He is affectionate.
He is loyal.
He's approachable.
He's enjoyable to be around.
I'm telling you what I know of him.
I'm prejudiced.
I love him.
To appreciate and experience God's love,
however,
one must first come to know that God's
one and only name is Yahowah.
It is the Shem name he introduced,
explained and shared in Shemowth Name's
Exodus in his Towrah teaching.
And so it is interesting that after
twenty-five centuries of it being erased,
I was the first to bring it to
the forefront again.
And not only did I return Yahowah's name
to where it had been wrongly removed by
the religious
I systematically demonstrated its proper
pronunciation in the opening volume of An
Introduction to God.
Every book in our quarter century of
collaboration bears our names, Yada,
Yahowah.
owlam is idly suited for Ethan Ha
'Ezrachy
because his mission doesn't just address
the future.
His primary or its primary meaning of Owlam
actually speaks of the distant past,
providing a continuum throughout time.
Owlam is from antiquity into futurity.
It is from Chanowk in the beginning to
Ethan at the midpoint,
continuing on to Yada.
the and the end.
It is a continuum.
The realization that this comprehensive
portrayal of sensible insights is for
generation to generation means that it is
for all people,
all places throughout time.
Written a millennium before the Talmud and
the New Testament,
It negates both while affirming Yahowah's
love and his reliability.
Now,
while Yahowah wasn't scribed in the
infinitive or in the participle in this
case, it was written in the imperfect.
So...
making the acknowledgement of yada wasn't
necessary but since it is my sure song
and journey well i felt at liberty to
report what i had written as intended it
is true that i have and will continue
to make known acknowledging and revealing
Yahowah's steadfast commitment to the truth
i yada know
that Yahowah is emuwnah,
trustworthy and dependable,
unwavering and reliable.
But even more than this,
it is Yada's life and his mission to
aman, to support, confirm, uphold,
foster,
and verify Yahowah's nature as he reported
it to us
As the Aman steady right-handed worker
providing this affirmation,
I want everyone to celebrate the marvelous
attributes of the God that I've come to
know and love.
And should you be among those who chafe
at the notion that God would appoint
someone to this role and that he could
be living among you now, please note,
what did it say?
Ethan is singing Yahowah's praises with his
mouth, not God's.
Clearly, this song was inspired by Yahowah.
However,
like everything else God conveyed through
one of his prophets, it was written,
spoken,
and delivered by someone of Yahowah's
choosing.
Ethan, ha 'Ezrachy,
was afforded the liberty
to convey what he had come to Yada.
No, it is God's custom.
It's a standard operating procedure.
He isn't going to change just because of
the importance of this particular song.
Now,
while God will speak directly through this
time traveler, and to us in first person,
the first five sentences are all in
Yada's voice.
as are the next ten following the
interjection of Yahowah's initial
assessment of his son.
And in this regard,
I'd like to let you in on a
seldom considered secret that can be
witnessed in this narrative.
When Dowd or I speak in first person
singular,
rather than first person masculine
It is because our nephesh soul is doing
the work and conveying the message to you.
And then nephesh is feminine.
So while we are masculine,
our soul being feminine necessitates this
insightful subtlety.
It's found throughout Paul's,
or throughout Dowd's Mizmowr.
He is particularly astute.
and saying so, and well,
so was Ethan ha 'Ezrachy.
So it's all designed to reward the reader
with the realization that our nephesh,
life, and soul, and even our basar,
bodies, can die.
Our nephesh can live when our bodies die.
And this is part of that message.
It's why so much of it's conveyed
in a manner that doesn't mention gender.
Now,
moving from the first stanza to the
second, the subject remains the same.
Ethan, ha 'Ezrachy
realizes that everything he has to share
at the midpoint of man's journey out of
the garden and back to Eden is predicated
on Yahowah's love and trustworthiness.
Without these two things,
he's just whistling in the breeze,
nothing of value.
or can be derived from any of this
without Yahowah's love and trustworthiness.
Said another way,
should someone discount or demean what I
have shared in this eternal mission,
speaking on behalf of Yahowah,
or contravene the intent of this maskyl,
they are simultaneously foreclosing on the
benefits that are attributable to both.
the Chesed, and the Emuwnah of God.
There is a very specific and narrow path
to Yahowah,
which is only found in his Beryth
covenant,
as presented in his Towrah guidance,
through his Mowedym, restoring witnesses,
all of which was delineated and explained
in Yada Yahowah.
It is the only way to Shamaym heaven.
Now with that said and assessed,
here is the second statement.
Yes, indeed.
It is surely true that I say,
I express in words,
throughout antiquity and for an unlimited
duration of time, owlam, loyalty, devotion,
and love will be built up and they
will be established
for Shamaym,
for the spiritual realm of the heavens.
Shamaym is the lofty and elevated abode of
God in the seventh dimension.
It's a cognitive shama, to listen, shamar,
to observe, and shem, name.
You will continually establish and
consistently authenticate your unwavering
trustworthiness, your integrity,
and your reliability
Emuwnah again,
your fidelity and dependability,
your honesty and consistency,
your firm and steadfast commitment to the
truth in them.
Speaking of them being what?
The spiritual realm, the heavens.
Heavens is always plural,
and Hebrew Shamaym is always Shamaym,
which means there's a multidimensional
nature to the existence of a plethora of
opportunities existing in the spiritual
realm.
It's always plural.
All right,
so the lyrics that Ethan Ha 'Ezrachy
penned at this crucial juncture,
literally when the fate of the world hung,
on his and its success.
We don't succeed here.
None of the are fulfilled.
There's no hope for humankind.
The planet spins into the abyss.
So this was a critical juncture in time.
The fate of the world literally hung on
the success of this message,
Dowd's response to it.
And all of this was composed on behalf
of the most important man
who would ever live.
In other words, we prevailed.
The moment the ink dried,
he would present this message to King
Dowd, God's beloved son,
a once bright and bold man who had
fallen and was struggling to get up on
his own.
But God would not allow him to stay
down.
As we know in the last Mashal,
Yahowah's ‘Amah,
made this subsequent meeting with Dowd
possible.
She's the one that set it up because
she let her son know in no uncertain
terms that he was too important to allow
temporal fixations and poor judgment,
alcoholism and depression, lethargy even,
and lust
deprive the world of all that he had
to offer.
Yes, he was human,
but he would soon be extraordinary again.
Then once he was receptive and thinking,
he became the first to hear Ethan's
message as it was delivered to the king.
So it bears repeating.
The Dowd song is introduced with the
chorus of three essential words.
Chesed, enduring devotion and favoritism,
loyalty.
owlam, from antiquity into futurity,
along the entire continuum of time.
And Emuwnah, being unwavering and reliable.
That is the message.
that Ethan delivered to Dowd about what he
knew about Yahowah.
Now,
based upon the narrative that's presented
in Second Samuel six,
there is every reason to suspect that
Ethan  ha 'Ezrachy had been on station
for a score of years prior to the
revelation of this song.
likely ever since he had served as
Obed-Edom, the one serving humankind,
all to facilitate bringing the Ark of the
Covenant home after Dowd began feuding
with God.
If you recall,
God had arranged for a bull to pull
the Ark of the Covenant
into Jerusalem and properly positioned it
on the Temple Mount.
And a man intervened and thought he knew
better and tried to help it along.
And God says, no,
you're not going to hear my story.
And he killed him.
And Dowd had a conniption fit saying,
you know, well,
now that you killed this guy,
I think you did a wrong thing.
I think it was unjustified and I'm giving
up.
I'm out of here.
It's your problem now.
And he walked away.
not his best move and the problem was
resolved because Yahowah had positioned
obed edom obed means the one who works
edom speaks of mankind so the one who
works for man he had set him up
such that he took responsibility for the
ark of the covenant and
And marvelous things happened as a result.
Dowd became aware of that,
that there was someone there to help him
relocate that ark.
And so as a result of this,
the king has been witnessed by Obed-Edom,
now Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
during his best and at his worst.
And he knows that it is essential to
anchor these attestations of restoration
upon the very certainty of Yahowah's
integrity and devotion.
Dowd had for a time forfeited both.
Yahowah had not.
And this is the way that Ethan
reintroduced God to his son.
Therefore,
Ethan noted for his prolific wisdom and
for his pen, as we have read,
introduced his lead witness by telling us
that Yahowah as God is the most credible
claimant in the universe.
Yes, this is a court.
And the presentation here is that you've
got the attorney on behalf of God calling
his chief witness, God himself.
And he is the most credible witness in
the universe.
And as a result,
we accept what follows for our benefit.
We discount it at our peril.
And as it was with Dowd,
so it is with us.
Now, according to Yahowah,
those who reject his robust appraisal of
King Dowd will die.
Worse,
those who steal what God said about his
son to transfer the king's acclaim to a
religious myth
rather than that being Jesus,
or to promote the inception of Judaism
with Rabbi Akiba's Bar Kokhba,
son of a star,
that you need to know that the religious
promoting such counterfeit messiahs are
going to engender God's wrath.
There has never been nor will there ever
be a more adroit condemnation of
Christianity or Judaism than is on display
in the Eighty-Ninth Psalm.
It provides a lethal ball to both of
them.
Ethan,
the continuously deployed hierarchy source
of logical expressions with Yahowah's
inspiration and enormous personal
contribution as well.
composed this Maskyl,
Portrait of Insights,
to contemplate and comprehend,
to save the world.
By restoring the confidence and conviction
of the man who would open the door
to Shamaym, by fulfilling Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym,
We're given access to Yahowah's enduring
love and devotion.
He was doing so door-wa-door for everyone,
everywhere, forevermore.
Yes,
I ought to know this to be Emuwnah,
trustworthy and true.
owlam,
from that moment to this and into
forevermore.
Well, this is Yahowah's message.
Ethan was delivering it.
And while serving as God's delivery boy is
a pretty nice gig with some handsome
benefits,
my contributions are fairly minimal,
certainly by comparison.
You'll notice as we move through this,
Mashal,
and we transition from me
introducing the star witness, if you will,
as Yahowah and speaking of his credentials
to the time that Yahowah speaks for
himself, he takes it up several notches.
Yahowah is really on his game.
It's just amazing how brilliant Yahowah is
and what he has to say.
You'll notice a real difference between my
voice and his.
Do my best, but he does better.
And, well, that's, I think,
a key part of the concept here.
In comparison to God,
because he is the inspiration behind it,
we are simply conveyors of the message,
but God doesn't work in a way to
dictate anything.
He wants us to add our own thoughts,
our own perspectives.
I think it makes the message more...
reachable more appealing something that is
more relatable when we do as moshe did
throughout the body he took what god
shared with him contemplated it came to
understand it he shared what he thought it
meant to the lives of the people listening
to him and to our lives today that
is ethan's job in the introduction of this
Marvelous, Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
Therefore,
to challenge this message is to contend
with the Almighty.
He inspired it.
He enabled it.
To refute it or to reassign it is
actually to earn an express ticket to
Sheowl, to hell.
So fair warning.
As best as I can tell,
I have been doing this job for a
very long time,
beginning around six hundred years after
our expulsion from Eden.
So beginning around fifty four hundred
years ago,
I don't think I look too bad for
someone fifty four hundred years old.
But what the heck?
I was, according to the introductions,
a son of Adam, man of the earth.
by way of Sheth,
stationed and appointed to perform as
Enowsh, a human being.
Qenan, jealously, zealously.
Mahalalel reflecting the light of God.
During Yered, the descent.
Terrible time.
Under the moniker of Chanowk,
the one who is prepared, dedicated,
and deployed.
Thereafter,
approaching year one thousand YAH,
God removed my soul,
keeping me with him until redeploying me
as MyDod in support of Moshe in
circa fourteen forty-seven BCE.
Then for this occasion in one thousand
BCE,
I was initially inserted to assist in the
relocation of the Ark of the Covenant to
Jerusalem.
I needed the practice, I suppose.
I'll try to do a good job here
in anywhere from four to seven years time.
And I did this as Dowd approached his
fortieth birthday and delivered this
message twenty years thereafter.
Now having witnessed his gradual and then
precipitous decline,
I was commissioned to intervene sometimes
after Shalomoh was born and at the
conclusion of the Absalom rebellion.
This note song is in collaboration,
of course, with Yahowah,
and it's the crowning achievement of my
lives up to this point.
And in fact, without it,
there would be no purpose to my life
now or yours we have a lot riding
on this i don't know your your proclivity
pursuant to my role or to me but
in this case you want to be rooting
for what i'm doing here should i not
prevail there's no opportunity for us to
ever leave this
blue marble spinning in the darkness of
space alive.
So right on cue,
following this affirming introduction,
Yahowah speaks directly to us for the first
time.
He will do so.
Just lay it all on the line and
a couple of amazing statements,
and then he will withdraw for a moment
and reestablish our relationship and frame
the issue, if you will.
Let me reaffirm his credentials.
And then we go to Aliyah all the
time.
So, God begins.
in this statement,
his opening statement in this Mizmowr,
obliterating religion on behalf of the
relationship he desires.
The Beryth covenant is the centerpiece of
the Towrah,
and Dowd is the cornerstone upon which it
is established.
As such,
this is among the most profoundly
important statements ever made.
God himself said,
I have established cutting through
separation, Karat.
I have created making a resolution by
cutting off,
as is the case with circumcision,
the sign of the covenant,
a solemn agreement between parties with
stipulations, responsibilities,
and benefits.
The Beryth covenant for the family.
the family-oriented relationship
agreement,
which brings individuals together with
action, commitment, and engagement,
all in accordance with the stipulations
required of both parties to the agreement.
It is from beyth, family, home,
and household.
Doing so through my Bachyr, my chosen one,
my
Individual,
this individual that I have chosen to do
as I want.
A person I have personally decided upon.
The one I prefer, that I selected.
Under the auspices of free will,
for he is the one I favor most
of all.
For a special relationship and great
affection.
It's from the Hebrew word, bachar.
And it means to choose and decide,
and makan, to test, to examine,
and to scrutinize.
It is not the first time we will
see this verb.
And it's important that you know that it
doesn't just mean to choose.
It says that Dowd is not only the
chosen one,
that he was tested, he was examined,
and he was scrutinized by God and was
able to prove himself worthy.
I have sworn an oath, God says,
and I will affirm this promise seven times
over.
shaba to Dowd.
Ebed Any
my authorized agent and coworker who
serves with me, my colleague.
That's Mizmowr
Psalm, eighty nine, three, profound,
unequivocal.
So now that God has made this announcement
for those who are rational,
the counterfeit hoax of Christianity,
its New Testament and their man, God,
Jesus, it's over.
There is only one covenant, not two,
negating the New Testament.
It was established with King Dowd,
not Jesus Christ,
rendering the Christian God nothing more
than a cheap counterfeit.
And the chosen one, oh, he's Dowd.
The prophetic promise is undeniably
directed towards the former and returning
king of Yisrael.
rather than to a figment of Paul's
perverted imagination.
Context is always king, and in context,
Yahowah has very clearly stated that that
is his name.
He works with and he communicates through
men.
Dowd is just the foremost among them.
What he inspires from heaven,
it never changes.
His Towrah and Naby’ym  are inalterable,
making him and them trustworthy and
reliable.
And with these affirmations,
Yahowah nullified Jesus and the New
Testament,
the rabbinical Hashem and the Talmud,
because they need God to be capricious.
In these statements,
two from Ethan ha 'Ezrachy and another
directly from Yahowah,
their collaboration reversed the damage
the king had done to his standing with
God.
They closed the door on the justifications
for Christianity and Judaism and their
false messiahs and reacquainted Dowd with
his purpose in life.
Working together,
they established the foundation upon which
these books, Yada Yahowah, would be written.
And to think,
fifty-five statements remain,
all of which will burnish Dowd's sterling
resume and reaffirm Yahowah's standing as our
God.
So,
With tongue in cheek, I say,
scoot over a smidge,
so that maybe I can settle down next
to you.
You know,
this Ethan ha Ezrachy fellow has a
way with words too.
Sure.
He's twenty four hundred years old at this
point.
So he's had some practice and he's been
in and out of heaven twice already.
giving him a head start, but nonetheless,
for his first go at prophecy,
it's a reasonably impressive opening
salvo.
All right.
Back to the task at hand,
and before I bruise my hand,
gratuitously patting myself on the back,
according to God,
and he is in the best position to
know,
a line has been drawn in the sands
of
A person can accept Dowd as the individual
with whom Yahowah chose to work alongside
to establish his covenant family, or,
well,
they will die apart from him and it.
And since all five benefits of the Beryth
are offered through the first three
Mowedym, restoring witnesses, Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym, well,
this means that Dowd fulfilled them.
That's direct, unequivocal,
Powerful, relevant.
So this is the end of the line
for alternative views.
It bears repeating.
There is no quarter remaining for the
likes of Peter and Paul,
Akiba and Maimonides,
for a New Testament or a Talmud.
Yahowah's plan and his players are as
presented in the books bearing Yahowah's
name.
and nowhere else apart from the Towrah,
Naby’ym  wa Mizmowr.
The covenant is the centerpiece and Dowd
is now established as the cornerstone for
our mutual benefit.
So it is also affirming to know that
the Beryth covenant is Yahowah's family.
Now this is affirmed by its root, beyth,
family, home, and household.
The concept is as simple as it is
profound, really.
So there is nothing remotely religious
about any of this.
Our father wants to raise,
to support his children and then explore
the universe with us.
He created all of this for us to
enjoy together.
And to be among those children,
a person must be sufficiently observant
and thoughtful to know him.
They must respond to him.
and they must demonstrate that they can be
trusted with the enormity of what he is
offering.
This is a relationship,
and a one-sided relationship is an
oxymoron.
The fact that the Beryth covenant has been
karat, cut,
reinforces a number of realizations,
and one of them is that those who
become part of it are separated from the
world and unto God.
This is a dividing line.
You're on one side or the other.
You're cut in or cut out.
Karat cutting also directs our attention,
of course, to circumcision,
which is the sign of the covenant.
There's also, I think,
a lesson to be learned by Bachyr ,
chosen one.
Loving and mutually beneficial
relationships are based upon free will.
Yahowah can express his just as we're free
to convey ours.
He chose Dowd.
I'd recommend making a similar decision.
In fact,
that is why I'm here and I'm inviting
you to join me
Bachyr Dowd | Choose Dowd.
God did.
You should.
And while that decision is yours,
I know that it comes with a consequence
depending on which you decide.
The further one goes down an opposing
path, the darker the alternatives become,
particularly in Christianity and Judaism
and, of course, in Islam as well.
The Beryth with Dowd leads to Shamaym.
None of the alternatives do.
Damning for them,
Christians not only promote the imposter
Jesus,
they stole Dowd's God-given title of
chosen one.
And Jews came to prefer Sha'uwl over Dowd
and later Bar Kokhba as a preferred
Messiah,
even as they parade around today under his
star.
However, unlike the case with Dowd,
there are no promises ever directed at a
Jesus or a Bar Kokhba.
Neither are ever mentioned, not by God.
One was a myth, the other a fraud.
Dowd is the exemplar of the relationship
where the other two religious,
just nothing more than religious obstacles
tossed in the way to it.
One name was mentioned here.
Well,
there's only two in this entire Mizmowr,
a man who coauthored it with Yahowah and
Dowd, the one about whom it was written.
No one else.
Yahowah's Shabbat, in this statement,
his sworn oath and binding promise is to
dote.
It's not up for debate.
No one asked your opinion.
It is not transferable.
God is on record stating that his Towrah
guidance,
that throughout it that he would speak,
and act through men of his choosing.
Dowd is simply foremost among us.
Should you want to know what Yahowah
revealed regarding his will, his purpose,
well,
you need to pay attention to what Yahowah
said and did through Dowd.
If you want to benefit from what they
achieved on behalf of the Beryth,
Well,
you need to know how they fulfilled the
Mowedym, which enable those benefits.
By using Ebed Any, my coworker, well,
God is on record stating that he promised
to do something exceptional with Dowd,
which we have discerned to be fulfilling
this spring, Miqra'ey,
invitations to be called out and meet.
By announcing his binding oath,
Yahowah is confirming that everything he
has and will say regarding Dowd is true,
including what follows,
affirming that Dowd is the Messiah and the
Son of God.
It means that when our king fulfilled
Pesach and Matsah,
delivering the benefits of Bikuwrym,
he was working with Yahowah.
It also suggests that there is a direct
connection between Dowd,
the Beryth covenant family, the Mowedym,
the restoring witnesses,
and Yahowah's Towrah teaching.
They're interwoven.
One doesn't exist without the other.
And as an interesting aside, Ebed, worker,
was scribed identically in the Hebrew text
to Obed.
Did you know that?
as in Obed-Edom.
Further, Edom is from Adam,
and Adam means bloody red man.
Therefore,
Obed-Edom is the man responsible for
assisting Dowd, the man,
when bringing the Ark of the Covenant to
Jerusalem, and he is aptly named,
working for the man, serving mankind.
Sometimes it's more important that we know
what the names mean than just knowing how
to pronounce them.
The man Obed-Edom, now as Ethan ha 'Ezrachy,
just a different description of the same
individual, was devoted to serving Dowd,
the beloved chosen one,
Yahowah's co-worker.
Dowd
by the way,
is spelled and pronounced as I have shared
it with you.
The three letters in paleo-Hebrew were
drawn as a daleth,
which forms a doorway to a home,
and with a wa in between them,
which is a tent peg,
securing and enlarging the tabernacle.
So in a name, Dowd opens the doors.
to God's heavenly home,
as well as to life.
Should you wish to argue against the
message Yau and I are sharing with you,
that is your option.
Billions of Christians and millions of
Jews have done so.
However,
it will cost all of them their soul.
So after affirming, one, a maskyl is a,
prophetic and poetic portrayal of insights
to contemplate and comprehend.
Two, this mesquil was composed by Ethan,
the perpetually reoccurring,
the resolute one who is continuously
deployed and eternally engaged.
Three, ha Ezrachy,
is described as springing up and coming
forth as a tree.
prepared to shine on time with logical
expressions on the sequence of events.
Four.
He chose to sure,
share his life's journey with you in this
song.
Five.
Yahowah is God's name.
Six.
Yahowah is Chesed.
He is loyal, he is devoted,
and he is loving.
Seven.
Yahowah's message is owlam,
it's from antiquity and into futurity,
forevermore, unchanged.
Eight.
Yahowah is addressing every dowr, generation,
place, and time.
Nine.
Yada knows Yahowah.
Yada, Yahowah.
Ten.
Yahowah is Emuwnah.
He's trustworthy and dependable.
Eleven.
Yahowah conveyed this message through the
pay of Yada.
Twelve.
Shamaym heaven is Banah.
It's built owlam forevermore on Chesed.
Loyalty and love.
Thirteen.
Yahowah, kuwn.
He establishes and authenticates his
amunah, his trustworthiness,
his integrity, and his reliability.
Fourteen.
Yahowah, karat.
He established the Beryth covenant through
Karat separation.
Fifteen.
Yahowah Karat created the Beryth covenant
with and for and through Dowd,
the beloved.
Sixteen.
Yahowah's Bachyr, chosen one, is Dowd.
Seventeen.
Yahowah's Ebed, co-worker, is Dowd.
Eighteen.
Yahowah's Shabbat, promised one, is Dowd.
And this enormity of vital information and
affirmations is based upon the
introduction and the initial three
statements in this,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr
And God continued speaking to us through
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy,
adding the following information in the
fourth statement.
Nineteen is that it is through the ad,
the restoring witness, that Yahowah owlam,
eternally kuwn,
establishes what is called Dowd, seed,
his offspring, what he has sown, Zera.
Twenty.
Therefore,
the Zera offspring of the Beryth covenant
comprise Dowd's family.
Twenty-one.
The Zerah seeds that Dowd Zerah sowed make
the covenant possible.
Twenty-two.
Yahowah Banna built Dowd's Keseh throne.
Twenty-three, the kise,
this seat of honor will remain everywhere
and forever throughout all door
generations.
And twenty-four, it is time we selah,
pause and ponder the implications.
And this is the basis for the last
of those conclusions.
God said forevermore,
as an eternal witness to the restoring
testimony.
Ad owlam.
I will prepare and establish,
I will appoint, equip, develop,
support and sustain your offspring and
that which you sow, Zera Atah.
In addition,
I have constructed for your throne and
your seat of honor
your authority on behalf of all
generations,
generation to generation for dwelling
places and family lineage throughout time.
Shalowm,
pause now and contemplate those
implications.
I will make a bigger deal of this
later,
but I do want to bring this to
your attention and we are nearing the end
of this program.
So we'll conclude with this statement from
God.
Kise is always just simply translated as
throne.
But that's not its verbal root and not
always what it means.
Do you know that,
I think it's in the Eighty-First Mizmowr,
keshe is used when Dowd says that we
should blow the trumpet,
sound the shofar at the new moon.
And at the full moon,
the new moon would be on Taruwah.
The full moon would be on Pesach,
on Matsah, on Bikuwrym, and on Sukah.
And he says this is something that we
should do and learn from, benefit from,
forevermore.
So it does mean full moon.
And who is the full moon that's associated
with dote?
Who is the lesser luminary reflecting the
greater luminary's light?
That very same yada.
But that's not all kise means.
It's based upon a verb which means to
cover, to conceal.
What did Dowd do on Matsah
He concealed our guilt by carrying it into
the black hole of Sheowl to deposit it
there, never to be seen again.
You know the basis of Kippur and when
Dowd returns?
Kippur means to cover.
So in his throne,
there are symbols of all that God's going
to do with and associated around Dowd to
establish that seat of honor.
And it's God that constructed all of this.
He built it.
He built it on behalf of every generation,
every dwelling place throughout time.
And he says,
pause now and contemplate those
implications.
Well, in our next program,
we're gonna return to this very passage,
and then we're going to even explore more
that can be deduced from it.
It is a great joy to be celebrating,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr with you,
particularly from this perspective,
particularly at this time,
particularly after all that we have
learned.
And I feel like we are literally in
the middle of a deluge of understanding,
and it is a joy to be able
to share it.
Thank you for listening.
Look forward to being with you tomorrow.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.